Lovers of money.
That didn't sound too bad, I mean, compared to betrayers, fears, slanders, and other traits
listed in 2 Timothy 3, what's so bad about being a lover of money?
A lot.
Once a person loves money, more than anything or anyone else, it corrupts them.
For example, let's consider what lovers of money have done and affect on big business.
Now business that produces a good product at a fair price, consumers, and others appreciate.
However, when a business is run by lovers of money, they cut corners.
They lie about risks.
Accept or offer bribes are basically do anything they can to raise their stock price or increase
profits.
We've all seen the constant upgrades, the completely false advertisements, and many
people today just accept that as so common and so normal that they say it's just business.
How have lovers of money affected governments?
Well when lovers of money get into power, government for the people becomes government
for them.
That money is diverted into private bank accounts that makes these politicians and government
leaders very wealthy.
The power that love of money has to corrupt even the most well-meaning men and women
in politics, we can see it in full effect around us.
It's an everyday occurrence.
No government on earth is immune to the effect that lovers of money have on government.
In fact, the suffering of many people around the world can be traced back to greed and
lovers of money in government.
Well, what effect have lovers of money had on Christendom and false religion?
Well once Christendoms, priests or ministers started to charge for their services or press
their congregations very hard for money, it had a corrupting influence on the worship
of God.
Many changed how religion worked.
It changed the relationship of people, ministers to their congregation.
I mean, to illustrate for a moment, think of a wife that goes to her husband and hands
him a bill for all the work she's done in the family.
And the husband turns around and gives her a bill for all the work he does in the family.
You think that might change the relationship in the family about how they feel about one
another and the work they do, of course it would.
Jehovah inspired Paul to see the corrupting influence that lovers of money would have
on religion in 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verses 3 and 4.
2 Timothy chapter 4 verses 3 and 4.
He says, for there will be a period of time when they will not put up with the wholesome
teaching, but according to their own desires, they will surround themselves with teachers
to have their ears tickled.
They will turn away from listening to the truth and give attention to false stories.
Well today, as mentioned in these verses, many religions are based on tickle their ears
messages, false stories, platitudes, and kind of feel good about yourself messages.
You know, when I searched on the internet for the effect of money on religion, I came
across several websites that explain how to form your own religion, what to say, what
to do with the whole purpose of getting rich.
So once a religion is run by lovers of money, they're no longer lovers of truth or lovers
of God's word.
Sermons are no longer about Bible truth.
They're more about what people are willing to pay for.
People are even told that they can buy God's forgiveness.
Basically, you can bribe God not to punish you.
It kind of goes like this, you've done bad.
God is going to punish you, so give money to me in the church, and God will forgive you.
You see, this scam and variations of it have a long history.
Indulgences sold by the Catholic church back in the 16th century are very good examples
of such greed.
Indulgences were basically the church saying you can pay for God not to punish you.
The awake August 1988 explained how Martin Luther felt about the Catholic church selling
such indulgences.
It says the selling of indulgences originated during the Crusades when they were granted
to believers willing to risk their lives in a holy war.
But later, they were extended to people offering financial support to the church.
One indulgences became a convenient method of raising money, the bingo of the 16th century.
With the sharp tongue for which he became noted, Martin Luther asked, if the Pope does have
the power to release anyone from purgatory, basically on the basis of indulgences of the
money, why in the name of love does he not abolish purgatory by letting everyone out?
End of quote.
Well, this really should not surprise us.
The biggest bribe on record was the one Satan offered to Jesus.
Satan said, I will give you, bribe you, all the kingdoms of the world, basically pay
you if you fall down and do an act of worship to me.
Now let's contrast Satan's and Christendom's view on love of money with Jesus' words
at Matthew chapter 10 and verse 8.
Matthew chapter 10 and verse 8.
Now here Jesus was giving some instructions to his disciples about the message they should
give as they go out and preach the kingdom.
And he told them, cure the sick, raise up the dead, make lepers clean, expel demons.
You received free gift free.
Now why after stating these beautiful, wonderful things they could do for people, would Jesus
say something like you received free gift free?
Because Jesus knew that the love of money could corrupt these wonderful miracles that
they could do for others.
I mean, Jesus had seen how money had corrupted many over the years he had seen mankind.
For example, when he saw, when Namin wanted to give expensive gifts to Elisha because he
had cured him of his leprosy, Elisha would not have any of it.
See, Elisha knew that it was wrong to try to profit from the operation of God's Holy
Spirit.
Gehez, though, he couldn't resist.
His love of money totally corrupted his faithful service.
Of course today we can't cure leprosy or raise the dead, but the lesson that Jesus gave
here in Matthew chapter 10 and verse 8 is still very applicable to us.
You received free gift free.
It's a clear message.
Don't accept money for the work of the Holy Spirit and the kingdom message and its blessings
are simply not for sale.
Now, we're truly blessed to be part of God's Spirit-directed organization that are lovers
of God rather than lovers of money.
We don't have collections at our meetings or our conventions.
Donations are made discreetly and funds are used wisely and modestly.
And we also follow the Bible's requirement for elders in 1 Timothy chapter 3 that says
that elders should not be a lover of money.
See how important it is that the elders, those taking the lead, should not be a lover
of money.
Otherwise, it can corrupt their relationship with the congregation.
Interestingly, that expression that they should not be a lover of money is the same expression
that's used in 2 Timothy 3 about what other people would be as lovers of money.
And that's the only time that expression lovers of money are used in the scriptures.
See when we see the corrupting influence that lovers of money have had on business, government,
and false religion, it teaches us a very powerful lesson.
Money has its proper place in our wallets, but not in our hearts.